00:03
All right. I have the pleasure of having Dr. Michael Njo with me today. Michael, I would love to know what you do and how you help people. What is it that you do and we can all learn from and you can help. Well, first of all, I appreciate all the time and dedication. You've been helping all the people backstage.

00:31
to  do this little infomercial, guess, for lack of better word, that's what we're gonna call it.  Of course.  But  I am a dentist, I graduated from UOP Dental School  and unfortunately herniated my disc C67 and I created a consulting company called Dental Strategies.  What I do in that company uh is transition work, management work and legal work. uh I'm very proud of it for a couple of reasons because before backstage I was all by direct referral.

enjoyed my services and they spoke highly of me and that's when I got my next client, just like when we were in private practice. So transitions, I help buyers buy practices and I help sellers sell practices.  I  help people relocate, do startups, do build outs, buy multiple practices, go into partnership and reinvent themselves like myself. A lot of people that have a hernia disc would say, how did you do this? What are you doing? It's a tough struggle.

01:30
as we all know when we have those  situations that are not planned. uh The second bucket is management. I help people on a month-to-month basis,  taking their practice to the next level. uh So I've been doing this for 22 years. Another really proud piece of my  business is that I have clients that have been with me for 22 years on a month-to-month consulting basis. So when  I create this consulting company, I always use consultants. My dad would always say,

01:58
You know, you're great at what you do, but you need to hire people around you that can do the other things that you were not trained to do. So most of the time I listened to my father. This time I did and I hired a lot of consultants, but they were the one year, two year, three year big box company. You paid in advance and you didn't know what you'd get and you'd always get somebody different. You wouldn't get the real person.  My clients get me. I have an internal team, but unless you're late for a payment, you're not going to talk to,  by bookkeeper, you're going to talk to myself.

02:28
So I people on that, but I have three major mantras. I have pro quality of life, pro work-life balance, and pro family. When I have the pleasure of transitioning a practitioner that, in my opinion, has done really, really well in life, they have an amazing family, they have an amazing life, their health is so good, they have such good friends, and they're very, very well off, I always ask them, what can I impart on

02:57
the person that's starting their career. And they always intimate these mantras. So everything I do when I care for my clients is with those three core principles. And I take them to the next level. um Then the last bucket is legal. Unfortunately, as we all know, as practitioners, um things can go not the way we planned.  And sometimes people take advantage of that. And I help people through malpractice issues, labor issues. I'm in California.

03:24
So the labor issues in California are very, high. And I help people through dissolution of partnerships and unfortunately through divorce. So I, because I've been doing this for quite some time and I've started to different times in people's lives, I've been privileged and honored to take care of people in all different life cycles  from good and bad. um I'm an educator. So I uh teach educational through transitions because I feel knowledge is powerful.  And um I wrote a book.

03:53
because a lot of people didn't have uh the knowledge on how things are done.  And uh Hi Smith, who was  the transition specialist at the Pride Institute, which is  a very, it's sold to Spears, but  it was basically the gold standard of consulting. That was one of the first consultants I hired. He gifted me the privilege of writing the fourth book because I was teaching at the dental school on and I created a DeGoni business club and I needed a textbook and I said, hi, can I?

04:23
have some books that you can volunteer. goes, yeah, several pallets came to my garage. I read the book and it was outdated. So he gave me permission without any plagiarism issues to continue that book. Very involved in  organized dentistry. And I think all this background that I have and me practicing dentistry and leaving dentistry, not the way I would have liked to leave it, I think it's a special perspective of how appreciative uh we should all be. But not all our colleagues feel

04:52
happy in what they do. And so one of my one of the four tastes is creating a culture that's wonderful and happy. You know, we were talking a little earlier and you love every day and I can tell you love it because you're a very happy person. That's what I want to impart on my clients is that every day should just be a wonderful day and you should be so grateful and you should be grateful to your dental family, which is your dental team. And so I'm known for creating great cultures, creating great teams, especially nowadays post covid.

05:21
It's very hard to get dental team members anywhere in the country. I travel all over the country. I'm based in California. I work with all  different disciplines of dentistry.  And um when people say,  what's the perfect um person for you to be a client? I say, just a good person. And that's how I was able to practice dentistry. I just pick great people that I enjoy taking care of. And I love taking care of our colleagues.  And m I love being part of Backstage.

05:50
Man, this is so amazing. I was gonna ask you questions,  you said it so, you seriously, you said it so beautifully. And I have to tell you, a lot of times, absolutely, a lot of times when something happens,  when  a traumatic life experience happens, like a divorce, a uh herniated disc and things like that,  dentists can so easily go, or people in general,

06:18
They can so easily go into this  victim mentality and why me? Thank God there are people like yourself to let them know from personal experience  that  life can be, this could be a beautiful sign for a different path that the universe has for you. And it's incredible. And  I love hearing the story like that because imagine.

06:44
If your herniated disc hadn't happened as traumatic as it was and as bad as it was, you wouldn't be the gift to so many people as you are. is really, everyone I think should grasp that fact and everything happened. It's a cliche, but everything happens for an amazing reason. it's such a pleasure talking to you. You know, I'm all about energy and I can feel your beautiful energy.

07:14
It's awesome. And I think your clients are truly, truly oh honored to have you  and privileged to have you. So this is great. Awesome. So my last question is how can they get in touch with you? Sure.  The best way to get in touch with me is through my email address, which is dentalstrategies at gmail.com. The other thing I would really  recommend people looking at is my website, which is uh Practice Transitions Institute.

07:44
and really uh look at the testimonials because I'm very proud of my relationships that I've  accumulated and cultivated over the last 20 plus years.  And uh it just makes me  smile and thank you for all the special things that you've commented on. But  it does take sometimes an epiphany to really appreciate things  when you don't have them. And I love to impart that  and I love your energy too. So thank you.

08:12
No, I appreciate that. Honestly, don't need to see your  testimonials.  can tell. You know,  it's amazing. It's like you see some patients and they just feel your integrity. They feel your honesty and they feel your skill level and they just trust you.  this is great. What's great about every single backstage member, it's their authenticity that just

08:41
shines, it overpowers any strategic  way of trying to  sell yourself. There's no need for that. There's no chasing. It's all about attraction. And I know you've attracted the amazing,  the right clients. And I think you attracted the right host if you don't mind me saying. That goes without saying. That goes without saying. You know, my ego said,  sit back for a second. I got to...

09:11
I gotta show myself up for a second.  Bro, it's been an absolute, absolute delight and a pleasure.  And thank you so much for your time. Thank you very much for everything you're doing. Absolutely. And I'll  put this out there. You have a great day. You too. Be well. Can't wait to meet you personally. I can't wait.

09:33
Hold on. Okay, I'll cut the video off right then. That was great, man. Holy shit. my God. You're so easy to interact with. This is fun. I truly can't wait to like hang out with you. I really can't. A bro hug. know, there you go. It's been a pleasure. I'm gonna put this out there and I'm gonna render it and put it on CapCut and put subtitles and this is great.

10:01
I appreciate you man, I appreciate your time and it's such a pleasure to meet you. I'll look forward to the email. Yeah, you'll send me the stuff for your. I'll send the email and in the website, it's not really, it's just simple. It's a Zoom conference for a Zoom call first because I have to pick them and I have to, it's a selection process. Not everybody, I love everyone, but it has to be an alignment. what do you, so I have some clients I'm actually thinking about.

10:31
they've gone through the COIS program and they've gone through the SPIRS program.  You know, like when people go through the LVI program, there's sometimes some controversy of philosophy, but you know, if you go through PANKE, that's pretty solid stuff. uh Do you have any issues with the COIS or SPIRS?  I don't. I actually,  was trained on the SPIRS and honestly, this is like a simple stuff that I can teach them. I'm not going to teach them full mouth reconstruction, which is like, that's easy too, but this is like a simple stuff. This is practical stuff. It's not a lecture. They're actually gonna see how things are done. It's more of a procedural way, but at the same time,  it is about energy and how to talk to patients and how to do that. It's a very,  my course, if you wanna put it in words, it's not about the head, it's about the heart. It's dropping to your heart.

11:29
and how to have that beautiful energy that attracts the right patients, that gets the right patients, and that makes patients comfortable. We're gonna have so, I mean, we have so much fun, and it's not about the hype, the singing, things like that. It's about  authentic  being yourself. It's about being, which dentists have the hardest time to do, because we are taught  doing, doing, This is  being.

11:59
They live here, different person. And I'm not going to tell them this because I want you to be able to enroll them and  share  the excitement and the benefits. What does your course generally cost?

12:12
Originally, I had it at 13,000. I think that's a little much. probably have in vicinity of either between six and 8,000, I think probably in the lower ranges, because I want this to be affordable. technically, they're getting probably $100,000 worth of CE classes that they would have to take their patient, travel, and do all that stuff.

12:41
And so they just come by themselves. They don't have to bring their dental assistant or do you recommend that they bring their dental assistant? They don't have to bring their dental assistant.  Okay. But if they want to, they may, I want them, you know what, when you bring an assistant or an office manager, you won't learn as much because you rely on somebody else to do all the work, to do all the learning. This is about, I'm getting a little woo woo here, but this is about embodiment.

13:11
This is about being.  That's what I'm teaching. it's about just your soul, embodying  what we do and the beautiful energy and how to treat patients. And of course it's procedure as well, but this is mostly about the heart. It's not about... So if someone says, I've been to Coice, they could benefit from you. Absolutely. Okay. Or spirit. Absolutely.  Yeah. Not that I do things...

13:39
There's nothing about occlusion here. It's about simple veneers. I just want to  teach them how to do the right way protocol of prepping.  They'll come and sit with the patient. They'll look at the preps. We'll put cords in there. These are people that really are  nervous about doing veneers or smile design or things like that. ah It's a very simple, if I would put it, it's the practical  simplified way  of spatially

14:09
generated treatment plan by Spear. Okay, great. I love it. I love it. Well, get ready to get some referrals in. I appreciate you. I appreciate you. See, I talked to you and now I'll do it. I've only talked to five people, but I've been referring, so. I appreciate you and I'll definitely do the same and I have all the information. I got your email and I'll get working on that. Thank you. You have a terrific day. Awesome, brother. Nice talking to you. Nice talking with you. Be well.

14:38
Take care.
